All right, so let's turn our attention now
back to list.copyof and list.of methods
in this video.
So we want to create a class in our Array's Project
and call it "Array's and Lists".
Now keep in mind list.copyof
and list.of, both of these methods return
immutable list objects and could easily be confused
on an exam question.
Now looking at this code, I think you'd probably agree
that it looks innocent enough.
I've created two lists which has the same data, correct?
Well actually no, this isn't correct.
Can you spot the problem in this code?
So let's run it first and then we'll look at the output.
So if you look closely at the first two lines of output,
there is a difference between first list and second list.
Second list is a list and it's immutable,
like First list, but it's not a list of string objects.
We've inadvertently created a list of lists.
This is more obvious when we print out the class name
of the first element
of each list.
And you can see that in the output.
So the method list.of can take an array of elements
and create a list out of it
or I can take a variable argument list of objects.
Because we didn't pass an array to it in the code above
specifically on Line 20
it assumed it a variable argument list of objects
and created an array of one element
the first and only element being the list
we passed as the argument.
This could be very hard to spot on an exam question
whose subject appears to be something else.
Pretty tricky.
Alright, let's take another look at sublists.
Alright, so I'll paste some code in
and I'll need to add that to our import
so do that manually if you're prompted.
And you can see java.util.Collections
is being imported.
Now it's important to note that list.sublist
and we're calling sublists on Line 33,
well that's got very similar features to the
arrays.asList method. Such that the return list
is backed by the original list.
So non-structural changes to the return list
are reflected in the original list.
So in this example we're actually using
both as list and subList,
to take the first five elements out of the array
and sorting only those five elements in reverse order.
And moving on down the code,
with imprinting the first list again
the immutable list, which was the result of copyof
in the previous code segment.
It basically just shows that it hasn't changed
so let's run this.
And there's the output right there
in the bottom of the screen there.
Let's move that up a little bit.
So what would happen here
if we replaced this line? This is Line 33,
it's some different code, so we're going to do that now.
So what's gonna happen in that scenario?
So first you can see that the code compiles
we haven't any errors showing.
But if I run the code, the code actually crashes.
We get a run-time error.
FirstList is immutable, so when you attempt
to sort the sub-list range you selected now
you're actually trying to sort the elements
on firstList, which is not permitted,
because of course firstList is immutable.
So I'm gonna undo that change.
Alright, so next we're gonna revisit
the list.toarray method in more detail
then we've done previously.
Okay, there's the code, I've just pasted it.
And observe here that we're making two calls
to firstList.toarray.
We've got a call there on Line 53
and also another reference on Line 60.
And we're passing a string array's whose size
is the same as the number of elements in the list.
So note then that the case of Line 53
we're not assigning the result to a variable,
but we are doing it for the second one on Line 60.
So if you run this code,
we can see that the both the aArray
and bArray Array's, have the same set
of elements as does the Array returned
from the second call of the method.
The two array method, in the second instance
returned the same reference as the bArray Array.
And we can see it if we test the equality
of the Array's, the references are the same
and you can see it in the output pane down in bottom.
So let's close down the run window.
Now, let's go back up to the code,
specifically the code now on Line 47.
At the moment you can see it's using
inter-array link equals firstLists.size.
What happens if I change this,
to instead of firstLists.size?
To make it a fixed literal value 5.
Let's run this code
and look again at the output we've got from this.
You can see that when the length of the array
passed and the parameter is less than the number
of elements in the list.
The array that was passed in as a parameter
is not populated.
Instead if you call the method with an assignment
the returned array is a representation of the full list.
And you can see that the next array
equals bArray is now false.
So we've changed the 5 to a 10 there now,
run
the elements in the array which exceed
the number of list elements are set to
their default values here.
It's also interesting to note that the array
returned from the second call to two-array
again, equals the array
which was the parameter to the method.
Alright, so just revert those changes back
to what they were any way.
In case you're downloading the code.
So let's look now at one more segment of code.
So there's the code.
And you can see in the comment on Line 71
if you always want an array that represents
the elements exactly in the list,
you can pass zero length array.
And you can see that we're actually doing that
on Line 74.
And then we're pretty at the value of Arrays.toString
And another example there, you can call toArray
with no parameter, it returns an Array of object
and doing that on Line 80.
So run this now,
and you can see the output on the screen below.
So let's make a bit of a change,
let's see what happens if you try to print this last array
using arrays.toString. Can we cast an objectArray
to a stringArray?
Well let's try doing that.
So you can see that the code is valid
and if we try to run this
we actually get a run-time error there.
And the error specifically is that you can not
cast an object effectively to a string there.
So let's finish the video here
and in the next one I'll just want to review
there's several methods for creating a copy of array.
See you in the next video.